---
layout: post
title: "[Work In Progress] How Mature Is Your Cybersecurity Management"
date: 2023-10-27 20:53 +0200
categories: [Cyber Security, Management]
tags: [English, Work In Progress]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
img_path: /images/2023C2M2
image:
  path: /1.webp
  alt: Cybersecurity Capability Maturity Model
---

# Cyber Security Capability Maturity Model

## What is a Capability Maturity Model

A maturity model is a framework that helps organizations assess and improve their capabilities and practices in a specific area, such as technology, cybersecurity, or project management. It typically consists of different levels or stages that represent varying degrees of proficiency or maturity.

When an an organization progresses through these levels, it demonstrates increasing competence and effectiveness in that area. SSimply put Maturity models serve as roadmaps for organizations to enhance their capability and reach higher levels of proficiency.

In the context of **cybersecurity**, a maturity model helps organizations evaluate and enhance their cybersecurity practices. It provides a structured way to assess an organization's readiness and effectiveness in protecting its digital assets from threats and risks.

While there are many different Cybersecurity maturity models, I find these levels to be most reliable and better named,

1. Level 0 – Not Assessed
   - This level of maturity is defined as “non-existence practices,” where the controls are not being performed and practices are informal, inconsistent, and reactive
2. Level 1 – Initiated
   - This level of maturity is defined as “Level 1 - Initiated” where the controls are being performed, but lacks completeness & consistency.
3. Level 2 – Defined
   - This level of maturity is defined as “Level 2 - Defined” where the controls in place however are not standardized across relevant bodies. Controls are project or objective driven.
4. Level 3 – Managed
   - This level of maturity is defined as “Level 3 - Managed” where the controls in place, well planned and standardized across relevant bodies. Controls are in place as a precautionary measure and deviances are justified.
5. Level 4 – Mature and Capable
   - This level of maturity is defined as “Level 4 - Mature” where the controls in place, well defined, standardized across relevant bodies. Controls are data driven to provide quantitative understating of capability, and its effects.
6. Level 5 – Enhanced
   - This level of maturity is defined as “Level 5 - Enhanced” where the controls in place, well defined, planned, standardized and is continuously improving with metrics and up to date world/industry practices. The goal is effective and efficient controls.

By using these stages, organizations can identify their current level of cybersecurity maturity and create a roadmap for progressing to higher levels.

This essentially helps them strengthen their security posture.
